MGMT-7599: Add documentation on the repository CI (#2584)
openshift/assisted-service: docs/dev/testing.md

It would allow easier integration with other tools, less dependency of the CI infrastructure, and most importantly the availability to run it locally.

1. When introducing a new job it should be both a presubmit and a periodic. A presubmit needs to be available so contributors would be able to run it whenever they want.
The presubmit needs to be configured as `always_run: false` and `optional: true` (not blocking a merge) until proving stability.
The periodic needs to run on a frequent basis (e.g. daily) and have a `reporter_config` configured, in order to be notified on Slack whenever there's a breakage.

1. In case the new job affects multiple repositories - every repository should have the same presubmit job so it could be tested for every component change. For example [e2e-metal-assisted-olm](https://steps.ci.openshift.org/search?job=e2e-metal-assisted-olm).

[An example of a PR adding a new job](https://github.com/openshift/release/pull/21604)

### FAQ

#### **How can I debug CI failures?**

A CI job can be debugged only in runtime.
Once a job terminates it can no longer be debugged.
In order to .

> Follow [Debug Prow Jobs live](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1mxLQskpLI7b6Ndw-TW6i_aXQqK1DGNgFc4tP_4jt8tU) document.

Reviewer: This is a private document I believe. Also to debug them live you need to be a part of the Openshift org here in Github. We should probably mention this 🤔

Reviewer 2: Adding it to Openshift CI docs is a bit more work, and also the right thing to do

We can alternatively just suggest Omer's automatic script instead of this. It's a github gist iirc

Author: Okay, let's start with that.

Reviewer: Openshift CI docs has the following page:
https://docs.ci.openshift.org/docs/how-tos/interact-with-running-jobs/

# Assisted Installer Testing

The assisted-installer tests are divided into 3 categories:

* **Unit tests** - Focused on a module/function level while other modules are mocked.

> Unit tests are located next to a module named `module_name_test.go`

Reviewer 2: Confusing sentence
```suggestion
Unit tests are located in the package, where the code they are testing resides, using the pattern ``<module_name>_test.go``.
```

> * **Subsystem tests** - Focused on the component while mocking other component. (e.g. agent/installer results).

Reviewer 2: not sure I understand "agent/installer results"
what do you mean?

Author: Examples for mocks. I'll rephrase

* **System tests** (a.k.a e2e) - Running full flows with all components.
The e2e tests are divided into u/s (upstream) basic workflows on [assisted-test-infra](https://github.com/openshift/assisted-test-infra/tree/master/discovery-infra/tests) and d/s (downstream) extended regression tests maintained by both DEV and QE teams on [kni-assisted-installer-auto](https://gitlab.cee.redhat.com/ocp-edge-qe/kni-assisted-installer-auto/-/tree/master/api_tests).

## Repository CI

> 

Reviewer 3: "Our CI jobs are currently managed by two CI tools - Jenkins and Prow..."

| [Jenkins]((http://assisted-jenkins.usersys.redhat.com)) | [Prow](https://prow.ci.openshift.org) |
|---|---|

> | Local for Assisted ecosystem | Company-wide |

Reviewer 3: What do the rows mean in this table?

Author: Comparison between the two instances

Reviewer 3: That's the columns, it's not clear what the rows mean. The entire table is kinda of confusing, maybe it would be better to have it as text instead

| Checks comments for JIRA | Runs e2e
| Manages images in quay.io/ocpmetal | Runs all testing checks (lint, unit, etc)

> Assisted-service CI jobs are defined under [openshift/release](https://github.com/openshift/release) repository on [openshift-assisted-service-master.yaml](https://github.com/openshift/release/blob/master/ci-operator/config/openshift/assisted-service/openshift-assisted-service-master.yaml).

Reviewer 3: CI *prow* jobs

Reviewer 3: Assisted-service CI master pre-submit prow jobs are defined under...

Reviewer: This is the config file which defines all jobs not just presubmits for a repo.

> All the available jobs can be viewed on [Openshift CI Step Registry](https://steps.ci.openshift.org/search?job=openshift-assisted-service).

Reviewer 3: All the currently available jobs for the openshift/assisted-service repository can be viewed on...

> Read more about OpenShift CI infrastructure on [OpenShift CI Docs](https://docs.ci.openshift.org/docs/).

Reviewer 3: Move this link higher up to be closed to "the CI jobs are defined under"

### Adding a new CI job

When adding a new job the following rules of thumbs should be taken into account:

1. Test logic needs to be maintained in the repository under test and not under openshift/release.
It would allow easier integration with other tools, less dependency of the CI infrastructure, and most importantly the availability to run it locally.

> 1. When introducing a new job it should be both a presubmit and a periodic. A presubmit needs to be available so contributors would be able to run it whenever they want.

Reviewer 3: `When introducing a new job it should be both a presubmit job and a periodic job. A presubmit job needs to be available so contributors would be able to run it on their PRs before merging.`

Reviewer 3: 2

> The presubmit needs to be configured as `always_run: false` and `optional: true` (not blocking a merge) until proving stability.

Reviewer 3: presubmit job

Reviewer 3: Some context / justification for why proving stability is important (it's obvious if you're familiar with how things work, but not so obvious to people new to this repo)

> The periodic needs to run on a frequent basis (e.g. daily) and have a `reporter_config` configured, in order to be notified on Slack whenever there's a breakage.

Reviewer 3: The periodic job

> 1. In case the new job affects multiple repositories - every repository should have the same presubmit job so it could be tested for every component change. For example [e2e-metal-assisted-olm](https://steps.ci.openshift.org/search?job=e2e-metal-assisted-olm).

Reviewer 3: `3. ` or `-`

Reviewer 3: "For example, you can see that the `e2e-metal-assisted-olm` job is defined on several different repositories in this link"

[An example of a PR adding a new job](https://github.com/openshift/release/pull/21604)

### FAQ

#### **How can I debug CI failures?**

A CI job can be debugged only in runtime.

> Once a job terminates it can no longer be debugged.

Reviewer 3: "... because the cluster / machines used to run the job get torn down at the end of it"

"However, each job produces artifacts such as <logs, must-gather, ...> which can be used to try to analyze what went wrong in retrospect"

> Follow [Debug Prow Jobs live](https://gist.github.com/omertuc/1ef4bdf22f0fedfbde46cf1feb149bb9) gist.

Reviewer 3: "You can try to run the <link gist in order to connect to the OCP cluster running your prow tests"

Reviewer 3: The gist currently tries to connect to both the OCP cluster running the prow tests AND the OCP cluster that is created by the ipi-install-install step (not sure this step is even used by any of the AI jobs). Maybe the gist should be modified to be more robust and check if the job even has ipi-install-install.

I think for now mentioned that the gist is experimental and any contributions to improve it are welcome
